=head1 NAME

AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher::Inotify2 - Linux file system watcher

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    $watcher = AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher::Inotify2->new(
		directories => ['lib', 't'],
		callback => sub { warn "you're working too much"},
    );

    # This has the same effect as:

    $watcher = AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher->new(
        backend => 'Inotify2',
        directories => ['lib', 't'],
        callback => sub { warn "you're working too much"},
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is the Linux backend for L<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher>.  It uses
L<Linux::Inotify2> as the underlying implementation.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

You should normally call the
L<constructor of the base class|AnyEvent::Filesys::Watch/"CONSTRUCTOR"> that
will pick the optimal backend for the current platform.

The following constructors are available:

=over 4

=item B<new(OPTIONS)>

Creates a new B<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher>.  The constructor may throw an
exception in case of an error!

B<OPTIONS> is a hash of named options:

=over 8

=item B<directories DIRECTORIES>

B<DIRECTORIES> is a reference to an array of directories to monitor.

This argument is required.

=item B<callback CALLBACK>

A code reference that is called, when a modification to the monitored
directories is deteced. The callback is passed a list of
L<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher::Events.

This argument is required.

=item B<filter FILTER>

B<FILTER> should either be a regular expression or a code reference.  If this
is a regular expression, only (absolute) file names matching that regular
expressions can cause an event.

If B<FILTER> is a code reference, the subrouting receives the absolute file
name as an argument and should return a truthy value for all files that
should cause an event.

Optional. By default, all events are passed through.

=item B<skip_subdirectories BOOLEAN>

Skips subdirectories and anything in them while building a list of
files/dirs to watch. Optional.

=item B<parse_events BOOLEAN>

If you pass a truthy value for this option, the events returned by the Linux
kernel are parsed in order to generate the L<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher::Event>
events because they contain enough information.

Normally, it is safe to use this option but you must be aware that there are
marginal differences in the events triggered:

=over 8

=item C<touch test> causes an additional "modified" event after the "created".

=item C<mv test2 test> if test exists before, event for test would be "modified" without "parse_events" but is "created" here.

=back

=back

All other options are ignored.

=back

=head1 METHODS

See the base class L<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher>. This module does not have
any additional public methods.

=head1 ORIGINAL AUTHOR

Mark Grimes, E<lt>mgrimes@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 CONTRIBUTORS

=over 4

=item *

Gasol Wu E<lt>gasol.wu@gmail.comE<gt> who contributed the BSD support for IO::KQueue

=item *

Dave Hayes E<lt>dave@jetcafe.orgE<gt>

=item *

Carsten Wolff E<lt>carsten@wolffcarsten.deE<gt>

=item *

Ettore Di Giacinto (@mudler)

=item *

Martin Barth (@ufobat)

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Guido Flohr E<lt>guido.flohr@cantanea.comE<gt>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<AnyEvent::Filesys::Watcher>, L<Linux::Inotify2>, perl(1)
